# Homework Assignment 2 (due Oct 1st 11:59pm)

In this assignment, we will explore the concept of **floating point representation**. 
The assignment is worth a total of 100 points.  If you have any questions or need 
assistance, please don't hesitate to reach out to us during office hours or post 
your questions on the `Ed Discussion` forum.

## Background

The IEEE 754 standard for floating point representation is widely used in
modern computer systems.  The standard defines the format for representing
floating point numbers using a fixed number of bits.  The format is
composed of three parts: the sign, the exponent, and the fraction.  The
sign bit is used to represent the sign of the number, the exponent is used
to represent the magnitude of the number, and the fraction is used to
represent the precision of the number.

The standard defines several special numbers, including positive and
negative infinity, and not-a-number (NaN). The standard also defines
normalized and denormalized values.  Normalized values are used to
represent most floating point numbers, while denormalized values are used
to represent numbers that are too small to be represented using the
normalized format.

## Assignment

Your task is to write a program that generates a list of all possible
floating point values for a given number of bits for the exponent and
fraction, using a representation similar to the IEEE 754 standard.  

The program should output the binary representation of the generated
floating point values, as well as their corresponding decimal values.
Note that the sign bit is not included in the input, as it is implied
that it is always the leftmost bit.

### Input
Your program will receive the following command line arguments:

```text
<exp>     Number of bits for the exponent
<frac>    Number of bits for the fraction
<output>  Options for displaying the output
          - 's' for special numbers
          - 'd' for denormalized values
          - 'n' for normalized values
          - 'a' for all values
```

> [!NOTE]
> The autograder will use a maximum number of bits of 16 for the sign, 
> exponent, and fraction combined. You should ensure that
> your program can handle this maximum number of bits.

The line below shows an example of invoking your program , revealing all
possible special numbers for a 4-bit exponent and 3-bit fraction:
```bash
$ ./fp-dump 4 3 s
```

### Output
Your program should output the required information to the `stdout`.  
Observe the example below, revealing all possible special numbers for a 
4-bit exponent and 3-bit fraction:

```bash
$ ./fp-dump 4 3 s
01111000 inf
01111001 nan
01111010 nan
01111011 nan
01111100 nan
01111101 nan
01111110 nan
01111111 nan
11111000 -inf
11111001 nan
11111010 nan
11111011 nan
11111100 nan
11111101 nan
11111110 nan
11111111 nan
```

The output is a list of binary numbers and their corresponding
floating point values.  The binary numbers are represented as strings of 
`0` and `1` characters padded with leading zeros to match the total 
number of bits in the specified format.

The special values are represented as strings of `inf` for infinity,
`-inf` for negative infinity, and `nan` for not-a-number. Normalized and 
denormalized values are represented as decimal numbers. Positive values 
do not require a sign, but negative values should be prefixed with a `-`.

Observe the following example, revealing all possible denormalized values
for a 2-bit exponent and 2-bit fraction:

```bash
$ ./fp-dump 2 2 d
00000 0.0
00001 0.25
00010 0.5
00011 0.75
10000 -0.0
10001 -0.25
10010 -0.5
10011 -0.75
```

The order of the output should follow strictly the order of the binary
numbers, from the smallest to the largest.

## Submission and Grading

This assignment uses an autograder. You either pass the test cases 
(full points) or not (zero points). To ensure compatibility 
with the autograder, your program must follow the specifications provided 
above, in particular, using the exact input/output requirements.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> In your code, the internal representation of a
> floating point number, the *exp* field, or the *fraction* field
> must use (unsigned) **integer types**.  All required calculations
> can be easily done using additional masks and bitwise operations.
> Representing any of these with strings of characters is not
> allowed and your code will not receive credit.

You will submit `fp-dump.c` via Gradescope.  The autograder runs `gcc` 
on a `linux` machine.  It is imperative that you ensure your code 
compiles and executes properly with the `gcc` compiler 
**prior to submission**.  You are also required to include 
meaningful comments in your code and use proper style and indentation.


> [!CAUTION]
> Remember, academic integrity is of utmost importance.  Any attempts at
> cheating or plagiarism will result in a forfeiture of credit.  Potential
> further actions include failing the class or referring the case for
> disciplinary measures.
